For me, the first big wave of panic hit at 3 A.M. the morning after I’d been in the Wal-Mart.  It was crazy what I saw in there: managers coughing;  shoppers bunching up and talking; half the people not wearing masks.  If I wore my mask to keep them safe, wouldn’t common sense tell them to return the favor? Half awake, I replayed the things I’d done and seen, like how I’d turned into the first aisle and saw two shoppers stopped right in the middle to have a nice chat.   I could all but see the little particles of virus flying out of their mouths and hanging in the space around them.  I’d glared at them from the end of the aisle, hoping they could hear what I was thinking. _This is a dangerous environment right now_.  _Don’t be lollygagging.  Get what you need and get the hell out of the way.  _I was treating them as if they were an enemy, because I didn’t know if they were carriers or not.  If anyone laughed out loud, they might as well have been spraying poison at people.  Anyone who came into my space got an ugly scowl for their trouble.  
That night, I had that usual nightmare came up: I’m back on point for my platoon back in Sadr City.  I’m scared as hell.  I’m obsessed, as I usually am, with how the hell I’m going to get all my men and women back home alive.   We’re in the same narrow alleys lined with corrugated tin walls crowned with barbed wire, but now they hold hanging steel racks laden with kitchenware and towels and travel-sized shampoos with price-rollback smiley stickers on them.  And hiding in amongst all that crap are tiny snipers, so small you can’t even see them.  They’re firing off nasty little bullets, eggs more like, protein shells protecting an evil, pulsating payload.   If one hit  in the right spot, it became a dozen new snipers, each firing off their own bullets, and so on until there were thousands of them.  Did any of them get off a clean shot at my throat?   Tossing in my bed, I unconsciously made a bunker of my pillows. 
I saw my cousin taking her great aunt there - that’s what she really did: her aunt liked seeing all that merchandise overflowing the cages, the young people picking through it and chasing their kids in the aisles - and I warned them to duck, I saw the tiny muzzle flash, but in my dream I was too late.  I’m not sure it was the covid that killed that woman, but it seemed ironic to me now that she would go there to be cheered up.  I hadn’t been there to get cheered up.  I was there to get over-the-counter sleeping aids, frozen pizza, aloe-vera gel and rubbing alcohol for homemade hand sanitizer, and, God willing, paper towels and toilet paper.  There were so many people in there piling their carts up with the same things that I’d resigned myself to getting whatever it was they forgot, because people always did forget something.
Two weeks before then, I could have gone into any store and seen bins full or hand sanitizer bottles for a buck a piece.  But by then, I didn’t even bother to look for it anymore, I’d have been more likely to see a rhinoceros moving through the auto parts section and getting in amongst the cheap bicycles dangling from the ceiling.  In that store, I’d probably looked like a jumpy animal myself, only I wasn’t scaring people well enough to get to move the way I wanted.  
I had been so happy that I’d been so quick about finding what I needed and getting into the checkout line, when what should I see but a stock man driving by on a mini-forklift with a pallet stacked full of boxes of paper towels.  I wheeled around and followed him and so did a dozen others, all of us now forgetting out social distancing in our eagerness to be the first to be wherever he stopped.  We must have looked like a communion procession, one that was not seeking salvation, but something more absorbent and usable on kitchen counters.   Now, I was asking myself why it had all seemed so urgent for me to go there in the first place.  And then, just as I was going to wear all those nightmares and waking visions out,  I remembered: I had read Lisa’s tweet about making do-it-yourself facial masks and how she was looking for tee shirts to use.  It was a hell of a thing to come to me at that hour of the morning, but I saw no choice, and since I wasn’t going to really sleep anyway, I got up and made myself a pot of coffee.  When that Wal-Mart opened again that morning, I was one of the first in the line and kicking myself about it.   
On my way home,  the highway was just an empty, streaked slab of crumbling blackness.  Every few miles, a highway alert sign scolded the few of us still out there.  _Covid-19 Emergency.  Stay Home.  Save Lives._  They wouldn’t have to tell me to avoid that store in the near future, because  I was sure what I saw in there the day before was going to kill people.  Near my exit, three cars stopped to let some geese and goslings waddle their way across the roadway.  It was as if it was the most natural thing for those birds to do, just waddle across one of the busiest and widest highways in the country at the height of what should have been the morning rush hour.  No one so much as honked a horn.  There were no trucks to swerve and jackknife, no line of cars bearing down at high speed and wiping them all over the asphalt, just myself and those stopped cars and the geese.  It was a strangely calm moment.  I felt like getting out and thanking the geese for it, because, now, maybe if I went home, gritted my teeth, and just fixed that moment in my mind, I might actually sleep.
