The lockdown hit us in the third week of March.  It was a world-stopping blizzard, blanketing us in an invisible snow we could not melt or plow away.  Day after day, week after week, it just sat there, whispering things to us we could not quite hear.  All we knew was that the world was going to change in ways we could not guess.  All most of us wanted to do was to make it to the other side to see that change.  
I supported the lockdown and its purposes.  I thought letting civilians experience discipline was a good thing.  I tried to do my part by staying in, but my apartment and I were never designed for it.  Apart-ment.  My building was certainly not designed for someone pounding out their daily aerobics class in the floor above mine.  The muscles around my neck became steel cables from the tension and my nerves were sparking so badly I could only pick up a book or a magazine for a few minutes before I had to put it down.  If I wanted to see anything on Netflix I’d have to talk to the credit card people about my employment status and I didn’t feel it was any of their business.
I needed to move to keep from burning right through whatever I called reality then, because I was ready for many things, but not for that void behind it.  So, I took to taking long walks.  I was so full of energy I’d walk all the way down to the city and then on down into its busiest streets where, even in the middle of the day, I might not see another human being for blocks at a time and even then, only from far away.  In those empty streets,  that whisper began to sound like a roar.  But even with all this monster movie weirdness, even with my fear steadily rising, I hadn’t yet hit that first wave of real panic.

That came two weeks in, in the early morning hours the day after I’d gone to the Wal-Mart.  What I had seen in there was crazy:  a manager coughing, but still at work.  Shoppers bunching up and talking right in each other’s faces.  Half of the people not even wearing masks.  I wore my mask to protect them.  Wouldn’t common sense tell them to do the same for me and for everyone else?  The first aisle I came to, I saw two shoppers stopped right in the middle to have a nice chat.  I could all but see the particles of virus spraying out of their mouths.  I glared at them from the end of the aisle, hoping they could hear what I was thinking.  _This is a dangerous environment to be in right now.  Don’t be lollygagging around in there.  Get what you need and get the hell out of the way.  _Yeah, I was unfriendly because anyone there could be a carrier.  If someone laughed out loud, I thought they might as well have been spraying poison on people.  We didn’t know yet you caught this thing but we did know it was dangerous and all those people were acting like they hadn’t heard.  Anyone who dared come into my space got an ugly scowl for it.
Lisa hated the store - it didn’t fit in with a lot of how she saw the world - but she would take her great aunt there because it cheered the old woman up to see all that merchandise overflowing the cages they kept it in, to hear and see young people speaking exotic languages and chasing after their children.  I wasn’t there to get cheered up.  I was there to get over-the-counter sleeping aids, frozen pizza, and aloe-vera gel and rubbing alcohol for homemade hand sanitizer.  There were so many people piling their carts up with the same things I wanted, I figured that all that would be left for me was whatever they forgot.  But I got lucky: a forklift came by with boxes of paper towels stacked high on its pallet and I joined the crowd chasing after it, all of us so eager we forgot all about our social distancing.   We must have looked like a communion procession, one that was seeking not salvation, but something more absorbent, something usable on kitchen counters.   
Two weeks before then, I could have gone into any store and seen bins full of hand sanitizer bottles for a buck a piece.  That day, I didn’t even bother to look for it anymore, I’d have been more likely to see a giant razorback getting into the sporting goods section and rattling around the cheap bicycles dangling from the ceiling.  I probably looked a little like a wild beast myself, something big and jumpy and confused about what the hell I was doing in such a strange place to begin with. 

That night, the usual nightmare came up.
I’m on point for my platoon back in Sadr City and scared as hell and frustrated that I’m scared.  I’m obsessed with how I’m going to get all my men and women back home alive, and I keep seeing the faces of the ones that don’t, in the end, make it out.  We turn into the same narrow alley I’ve seen in my dreams a thousand times even though it’s not a real place.  It’s only wide enough for a motorscooter and it’s lined with makeshift walls corrugated tin topped with barbed wire.  But there’s something new: hanging on the walls are steel racks laden with kitchenware and towels and travel-sized shampoos with price-rollback smiley stickers stuck on them.  
“Look out, Sarge” cries one of my men.
I can’t see anything at first.  Then, I do.  Hiding in amongst all that crap are snipers, so tiny all you can make out are the pinpricks of their muzzle flashes.  Somehow in my dream I know that they’re firing off nasty little bullets, eggs more like, protein shells protecting something pulsating inside.  If one hits you in the right spot, it pops open and that pulsating thing spills out.  It’s a dozen new snipers, each with dirty protein fingers firing off their own bullets, and so on until there are thousands of them bastards in you. 

It was a coughing jag and a scratch in my throat that woke me up.  Did any of them get a clean shot off at my throat?   I got up and gargled with hot water, sat on the sofa, waiting for the electricity of my fear to play its way slowly out of my body.  Getting back in my bed, I saw that I had made a bunker of my pillows. 

Half asleep again, I was back in the nightmare.
 I see Lisa in the store now.  What is she doing here?  I see the tiny muzzle flashes and I scream, “Lisa! Duck!” but I’m too late. She teeters, clutches her throat and then just topples over.

When I woke up this time, I could almost hear the echoes of my scream still reverberating around the room.  And then I remembered.  Lisa needed tee shirts.  I was going to get her tee shirts because she had said she needed them to make do-it-yourself facial coverings.  It was a hell of a thing to remember only then.  I saw no choice but to do the very last thing I’d want to do: make another sortee into that Wal-Mart just to get her shirts.  I made a pot of coffee and waited until the dark blue outside the window became just a shade lighter.  When that Wal-Mart opened up that morning, I was the first one inside.  If she made those masks, maybe they could do what I could not do: keep her safe.
On my way home, the highway was an empty, streaked slab of crumbling blackness.  Every few miles, a highway alert sign scolded the few of us still out there.  _Covid-19 Emergency.  Stay Home.  Save Lives._  They wouldn’t have to tell me to avoid that store in the near future, because  I was sure what I saw in there the day before was going to kill people.  
Near my exit, three cars stopped to let some geese and goslings waddle their way across the roadway.  It was as if it was the most natural thing for those birds to do, just waddle across one of the busiest and widest highways in the country at the height of what should have been the morning rush hour.  No one so much as honked a horn.  There were no trucks to swerve and jackknife, no line of cars bearing down at high speed and wiping them all over the asphalt, just myself and those stopped cars and the geese.  It was a strangely calm moment. 
I called and texted Lisa to let her know I’d gotten the shirts and then went back to bed.  As I lay there, I kept a picture of those geese crossing the highway fixed in my mind, the outside world so quiet, now.  I slept like the dead.  What should I call what I ate after I got up, breakfast or lunch?  Scrambled eggs and toast and strong coffee at two in the afternoon didn’t seem like either.  Neither did fruitlessly calling the unemployment agency feel like work.  But that was my job now, to call ten or twenty times just to get into the agency’s automated menu, and to follow its options down to the inevitable _please try your call again later._  I did an entire virtual train trip from Tirano, Italy -- I’d never heard of the place -- to St. Moritz in Switzerland while I went through that pointless exercise.
It was time to call Lisa and if she wanted those shirts I expected her to damn well answer.
She didn’t.  I sent some texts.  Ten, to be precise.  
She called, finally.  “Sam, I thought we agreed you could call me once a month.”I could tell she didn’t have her happy face on.  “Is it April yet?”  
“But I thought you’d want to know…”
“I don’t care what you thought I’d want to know.  What I do know is that I have my own life to live now.  And I know that my brother is still stuck in that pen for another year.”
Her brother’s mystical ideas had ended us.  He used to preach to me that everything in the earth, all the animals running around in the forests or fields, the creatures swimming in the seas, the forests spreading over the mountains,  all of those were just parts of one great thing.  That one great thing was Earth and we should know it as a god and worship it.  Yes, it was a kind of rambling and it probably was not as deep as the cheap wine he drank made him think it was, but one day, I had this moment where I understood that this was exactly what I saw when I looked into Lisa’s eyes:  a world full of flights and flutterings of things darting around in there, all the things that made up who she was, things that sometimes came peering out shyly to greet me.  He wasn’t talking about the earth, he was talking about her.   
I thought some mushrooms might help him clarify things.  It was love at first ingestion.   And it was the end of any hope of clarity, because now he was sure the earth was talking to him.  The earth wanted to talk to everyone, evidently, so he decided he was going to get people to hear it the way he did, one batch of mushrooms at a time.  Since he was always bumming money off Lisa and me, I suggested there were some commercial possibilities in his new enthusiasm, and I freely admit this was a bad idea on my part.  I didn’t know he’d take to dealing like a dung beetle to cow shit, but he did and he diversified his portfolio and he made a lot of money for a brief while.  Just when he got into what he called a harmonic vibe with the earth, he got busted.  There must have been frequencies in prison the earth wanted him to tune in to.  That Lisa still blamed me for this just showed me how she wasn’t always capable of reasoning things out. 
He’d done a short stint, got out, violated his parole and now he was in for a longer stint.  I was wondering how he was doing in that state pen.  I’d see the damn thing brooding by the highway with it’s tiny slits for eyes all but shutting it out from the world.  It didn’t shut out the virus.  It was in there now and spreading through the population and no politician gave two fucks about the people in there and what would happen to them.  Regardless of his faults, Lisa loved him, and I hurted for her because I knew she hurted for him.
“So how’s Lee doing in there?”  I asked that question stealthily, feeling like a mangy racoon trying to sneak into a junkyard with a starving rottweiler guarding it.  
“I’m pretty sure he hasn’t found God’s peaceable kingdom if that’s what you mean.”  It was a surprisingly soft response from her, compared to other times I’d asked.
“I think he’s pretty quick on his feet,” I said, although I most certainly did not.  His long-haired gospel show would never play well in that place, but then again, how brutal was it for the state to send a naif like him into a jail like that?  
I heard her take some deep breaths.  “So, Sam, do you want this to be your April call?”
“No, of course not…”
“So what is it?  Are you calling to borrow some money?”
Borrow money?  I was too flabbergasted to answer.
“Ok, bye then,” she said.
“No wait!”  I had to gather myself.  God-dammit I kept worrying about that girl and I didn’t know why.  I guess I still cared about that world I saw in her, maybe felt I appreciated it more than she did.  She hated it when I did that.  “I picked up some tee shirts for you.  For your masks.”
“Are you insane?  No one’s supposed to be going into a store like that right now.  You’ve been watching the news haven’t you?”
“Believe me, it was a madhouse in there.”  I wanted her to say people sure are messed up.  Other people. Not me.  
Instead,  I heard a man’s voice.  It had to be the new husband, the one after the biker with the substance issues.  I tried to picture what he would look like.  Would he be built like a bear? Have tattoos on his neck?  Or maybe was another type altogether, the type who wore a cheap suit to manage the local grocery.  At least she had someone there she could look at and talk to, no matter what he looked like, while I had just myself.  More and more, I was unsettling company.  
I decided to take a long shot.  “Do you mind if we do that thing with our faces on the phone?”  I must have sounded a little pathetic.  
She did not say no right away.  I heard her tell her child that it was Daddy’s turn to read to her and I heard the new husband ask who was on the phone.  She said, “Just an old friend. She’s freaking out about this virus.”   My beard was of pretty significant size, so my guess was she didn’t expect the man to look on.  The new husband was evidently satisfied with the answer. When she called back with the face feature on, I could tell by the wind she was out on the porch.  It was a chilly night, so she must not have been expecting to talk to me for long.  
When Her face came up on my phone’s screen in the poor light, all I saw were white lines of reflection around the edges of her chin, some highlights near her cheeks and brows, and white spots where her glasses reflected a blob I took to be me.  If I waved my arms, I’d see that in the reflection.  Still, it was her.  It had been three long years since I’d seen her face.  
“So, you’re still alive, “ she said.  “How are you doing, otherwise?”    
I wasn’t going to admit to how I felt.  “I’m doing.” I said.
“I don’t mind lending you some money.”
“No, I do.  I’m sure they won’t throw me out.”   After we broke up, I’d lost my job managing mechanics for a local chain of auto maintenance shops.  I never told her that, but she somehow knew I was short of funds.  That was the thing about us, we had this closeness.  We could read each other’s moods from across a room, even when one of us had our back turned.  We could tell each other more in a minute without saying a word than most people could do talking for an hour.  She would not have known, however, that a buddy of mine from the Corps had hooked me up with a job as a bouncer.  It was a great arrangement, getting paid under the table, but I didn’t feel so smart once there was no place open to bounce people out of.      
“I’ve been worried about you Lisa,” I said.
“Stop it.  I’m fine, there’s no reason to worry about me.  Why do you do that?”
I tried to find the right way to answer.  “It must be like a virus, like I have some kind of care-for-Lisa receptors in my brain it caught on to. Believe me, it’s an annoyance.”
She was silent.  Then we both tried to speak at once and then we both went silent and waited for the other one to talk.  I wanted to say that I had let everything else go, that she could be with whoever she wanted to be with, and that I knew she wasn’t my wife and all that, but that the one thing that I still got stuck on was worrying about how she was.  What if she got sick and I couldn’t help her?  The thought disturbed my sleep, especially these days.  
“Are you alright, Sam?” she said.  “You look kind of funny.”
“Me?  You’ve got that phone camera in the wrong place.  Your head looks like it’s the size of a pigeon’s egg.  And your boobs look like mountains.  No offense, but I know that ain’t right.”  The comment was a bit too familiar and something troubled flickered across her face.
““You’re not supposed to be talking about my boobs, Sam.”  She peered at something on her screen.  “Hmm.  I wouldn’t call it a pigeon’s egg but I do see your point.”  She held the phone up to change the perspective.  “Is this better?  I won’t be able to talk long holding it up like this.” 
 “Can’t you get a little light there?”  
“You can see me well enough.”  Now, I saw more clearly how tired and worried and scared she looked.  She was at least as frightened by this as I was.   “So you’re going through all this and living alone,” she said. 
“For now.  Yes.  It’s the strangest thing to be going through.  Alone, that is.”
“How’s your mother?” 
I hadn’t been to the nursing home now for two months.  “She’s still at Living Active.”
“Are they keeping her safe there?”
At the time, no one knew what kind of death traps those nursing homes were going to be.  “What place could be more safe?  It’s not like they go out to Daytona Beach for Spring Break or anything.”
“What does she think?”  
“She just wants to get the hell out of there, in general, virus or no virus.  She says there’s nothing but old people in there.  But what can I do?  She’s up in Buffalo and I’m down here.” 
“Your brother’s up there.  Is he still tending bar?”
“He was.”  I had been assuming I might go stay with him and Sherrie if I got evicted and I didn’t want to linger on what his being broke meant for that little fallback plan.  Lisa and I both were silent for several moments until I changed the subject. “When can I bring you the tee shirts?”
“Did I ask you to get me tee shirts, Sam?  When did I do that?”
“Well you tweeted that you were going to make …”
“That’s not the same as asking you to go and get me some stupid tee shirts.”  Her voice was rising now, just like old times.  We had our fights back in the day, we’d even been thrown out of bars for them, but isn’t that what the true lovers do, have fights like that?  I remember how it felt when she used to nag me.  I would get annoyed and impatient and part of me would tune her out, waiting for it to be over.  But there was something else. There were all these other parts of me that leaned toward her voice and even her nagging,  the way weeds lean toward the sun.  Weeds didn’t care if they were growing in some rubble strewn lot in a war zone.  If the sun was there, and they had a bit of water, the world was a good place. I wanted her to keep talking to me because I needed just a little bit more.  If only I could see her face more clearly.  
I waited for a few seconds to let her calm down.  “Are you afraid at all?” I said.  All conversation now felt forced to me.  Talking to people was becoming an unusual thing. 
“Aren’t you?”
“Damn right I am.  I do see the news.”  I thought of the people face down on gurneys struggling just to breathe.  “You don’t want to get on one of those tubes.”
“You’re right about that,” she said. “You get on one of those, you stay on.  Then, they move you to the truck.”  I laughed and she said, “That’s not funny.”  
“Great news, Mrs. Jones, we’ve moved your husband out of the ICU and into our temporary outside housing.  It’s refrigerated!”   
She giggled at that poor joke and then, just like a momentary reflection of lights in an animal’s eyes shining in the dark, we reverted to how we once had been.  But it vanished into the undergrowth just as quickly precisely because we noticed it.  
She grew wistful.  “Where did they all go, Sam?  All those wild things I used to see when I looked at you.  Why did you drive them off?”
“You’ve got it backwards, Lisa.  All the wild things were in you.  What you saw was just a reflection.”  
“You’re starting to sound like Lee.  “If you’re saying shit like that to get me back, it isn’t going to work.  I’ve gotten an immunity.  Antibodies to your bullshit.”  She laughed and I did, also.  
But I knew what it was that had driven all that life out of me.  It was that job managing those mechanics.  The only good thing I had taken back from the war was learning to look out for the men and women in my small command.  I could do something, even fight with my superiors for them and it might even help.  But here, I could do nothing to protect those mechanics, not when I had people above me studying metrics and telling me that Oscar, one the best mechanics in the city, was taking fifteen seconds too long to undo an oil pan.  They were looking to fire their best people to save money, good work be damned, and I was hired to be the hatchet man.  I took it all home with me and I tried to study their damn reports and even started talking to my people to get them to change, but the look I saw when I told these mechanics -- some of the best and most clever mechanics you could hope to meet -- the things the reports said about them, what I saw in their faces would’ve drained the life out of any half decent soul.  They were taking the life out of work and trying to replace it with money, money that wasn’t even real.  And I, trying to fight my bosses with their own fucking metrics, became the same kind of robots they were.  I made a hell of a lot less money being a bouncer, but God help one of them if they came into my club and grabbed an ass.  The anger still had a tight grip on me and I had nothing anymore to spend it on.  Maybe then, even though it had been a long time since we had broken up, is when I started getting gripped by this thing about Lisa.  I couldn’t have her and maybe I no longer even wanted to, but I still wanted to take care of her.  
Below my balcony on the street, three men in tank tops stood smoking cigarettes and speaking quietly.  They had arranged themselves around a pickup truck so that all were separated, as suggested, by at least six feet, but they wore no masks.  I saw the squat silhouette of a mujer in the opposite doorway wringing her hands, keeping silent watch.   I knew there were two families living in that one unit, nine people to share two bedrooms.  Being outside, smoking around the side of a truck, was likely the safest place those men had to pass a few hours.  
“Sam,” Lisa said, breaking through my reverie.  “Why haven’t you found someone already?”
This had come up before.  She’d suggested I go to dating sites, or even find a local church or a yoga class.  None of that was going to happen in this lockdown.  I sometimes made the mistake of saying I thought I had found someone when I found her.  
“If I find someone, I find someone,” I said.  “I have nothing against the idea.  But now?  I’m off balance.”
“Sure you are.  We all are.  We’ll survive.”
“Or not.” 
“Or not.  Maybe you should call that therapist again.  You said she helped.”
This therapist had helped me but there was no money to pay her now.  Had I told Lisa that, she would’ve offered to pay.  I said, “I hate that I have to pay someone just to talk to me.”
She waited for me to say more.  There was an owl hooting somewhere.  I’d never heard it before but now, with the traffic on Tremaine Avenue almost completely gone, it was there.  It had been, all along.  It felt like a small miracle, and my mood suddenly became oddly hopeful.  It was as if some magician had just dragged a scarf over everything I was afraid of and it had all turned out to be nothing but a bunny.  For just a moment, I even forgot I was talking to her.  I saw her shadowy face looking at me as if waiting for something.  “I’m going to volunteer and I’ll be out and about again,” I said, out of nowhere.  It was not true, but hearing myself say it, it sounded like something I might try.
“That’s a good idea, Sam.”  She sounded tired and I was slightly relieved to know I was not the only person exhausted by this.  
It was just a matter of time before she’d have to click off, but I still thought I could get just a bit more, something to remind me I was not just a flickering image on someone’s screen.  I wanted something to make it easier to get through another few days.  “I’m glad you answered, Leece.  I needed to see a friendly face.”
“And mine is a friendly face?” She laughed softly.  I heard more sounds coming from inside her apartment.  “You have no idea how messed up I look.  And maybe you shouldn’t be so sorry for yourself.  We’re all driving each other up the wall here.”
So that was the choice: unremitting and involuntary solitude, or no solitude at all, even when you needed it.  It was a new kind of difference in our lives and we both felt it.  I was one of the people stranded alone on an island, while she had other people on hers.  It didn’t matter if it was just one or two other people, but it was almost as if we inhabited different realities just because of that one fact of our lives.  
Just then, there was a pop-pop-pop somewhere near her and the image on my screen tumbled.  When she righted her phone, she looked shaken.  “Asshole,” she said off into the darkness behind her.  “Somebody just lit a string of firecrackers.”   She looked past the phone now toward her house and said, “I’ve got to go now.”  I heard a man’s voice asking what the noise was just before her pale image vanished and was replaced by the bright and useless little icons of my phone’s home page.  It was 9 PM and I doubted I’d be speaking to her again for at least another several weeks.  I was alone with the night and all its hours. 
NOTES:  I want to condense the brother episode and de-emphasize it but intersperse his “earth talking and all the things in it” with Sam’s remembering what he saw in Lisa’s eyes and what she saw in his.  

